A senior was just, he was everything. A freshman
was nothing. Why that comparative
democracy?
I guess because we all sort of looked alike,
dressed alike, did the same things together. And
there were so few immodulants of, well, you knew my
classmate of mine whose father was a Buick dealer,
and he had a Buick. He got it his senior year. He
didn't have one before then, because he couldn't
have one until he was a senior. But there were some
from successful business fathers, but I can't
tell you what any ratios were. I would just call
it... middle America to, I hesitate to use the word
lower middle class and upper middle class. I sort
of like the difference between a medium steak and a
medium rare. I don't know what a medium rare steak
is. I know what a rare is and I know what a medium is. I
would say it was medium, middle class America.
I've always thought, too, that what mattered is
were you an Aggie or were you not. That's right. It
didn't make any difference where you were from,
what you were studying, who you were. It made
absolutely no difference at all. The only
difference was that
even as a freshman, the lowest form of humanity on
the face of the earth, except for every graduate
from the University of Texas, What were the
highest status student? And there was no, if the
corps commander, even though more come to my
outfit or to your outfit and tried to exercise his
authority as the corps commander, there was a
battery commander there, a troop commander. He
was the boss. What were the highest prestige
students? It was federalism at its best. Oh, okay.
That's very good. Okay. What were the highest
prestige students? offices, attainments? Well,
I think there were some that got in as who's who. Oh,
no, no, no, no, no, no. In your own mind, which did
you and your colleagues most respect? The corps
commander, the head yell leader, the what? The
corps commander was very popular. Joe Slicker, in
my opinion, was the most popular man in my class. He
was a battery commander, and he was commander,
captain of the RVs, of course, here. I think he was
the most popular man in my class, although the
Corps commander was very well liked as well. Bill
Becker was his name.
Were there other tasks that had...
We paid no attention in the outfits to the
battalion staff or to the regimental. The
regimental commander of the Coast Guard was in my
back.
or not to do anything. Tom Haygood was his name. And
he lived, he was a classmate of mine. In my back was a
regimental planner. Okay, we're now to the, we're
right near the end and we're to the end. The seniors
were the ones in authority. My senior year, there
was a flu epidemic that hit the campus. And at the
mess hall, at the evening mess one day, The tally of
attention and announcements were made that there
would be a meeting of the senior class in DeWare
Fieldhouse immediately after mass. That's all.
So after mass we went down there. Bill Becker was up
there, and he was a corps commander, and a couple of
others. And the hospital was full. We had kids sick
in the hallways in the dorms, and they were being
ministered to by fellow students. So real
epidemic. And the announcement was made, we've
got a problem with this flu. And it's near
Christmas time, about a week before Christmas
holiday started. And they said, we think we ought
to shut her down and go home and get off this campus,
those of us that can get off. And what do you think
about that? Everybody was in favor of that. It was a
smart thing to do. Somebody said, well, go get
baritrax. So he didn't live very far. He just lived
on the other side of what is now G. Raleigh White.
And so he got the nickname because he was just the
hulk of a guy. And he was the dean. Talk about making
the dean's team, not an A&M. It worked the other
way. He didn't want anything to do. But anyway,
here comes Bartrax and puts him up on stage.
Somebody says, let's hear it for Dean Bolton. And
Dean, Dean, Dean, he gave a yell. And so I said to
Dean, Dean, the way this flu is bad, we have decided
we're going to, the school's coming to an end. And
he said, well, let's talk this over. And Dean, we
have decided we're going home tomorrow. We're
going back to our outfits now and tell everybody to
pack and go home. And that was that. Went back to my
outside. Got the first sergeant in the house.
Let's get all the juniors out. And we got, we met
with them, said, pass the word, we're leaving.
School's out. And we left.
All right, to the important part. That was pretty
important. When you talk about insurrection now,
that was not insurrection. It just was an
assumption of authority, and Bartrax Bolton and
T.O. Walton were smart enough to know that if the
senior class had decided that. The better. Well,
that caused me to bounce back to academics. How
common was it that somebody cheated? Well, I
suppose it happened. But was it common? Not to my
knowledge. Did you all have test files or anything
like that of old tests? I never saw one. Never. Nor
did I ever hear of one becoming available. Never.
But you don't remember any stunts where somebody
got a copy of a test or anything like that? Never
came to my attention. I've not heard of it. I might
have been delighted to have a copy of it, but no. I
never really, I don't believe, I can't say that it
didn't happen because I have no recollection of it
ever having happened. As you look back, were there
some courses you now believe were more important
to your future than others? Oh, I think so. I think
so. The fact of the matter is, a great deal that
prepared me for my turning out to be a trial lawyer.
I tried lawsuits for 47 years. was that I debated.
A&M was a nothing in debating when I got there. And a
senior in I went over to Austin, and when I was a
freshman, we won the Southwest Congress debating
championship. It was a first for A&M to even be
there, much less to win it. Who was there, was there
a particular important coach or teacher? A fellow
in the English department was sort of the sponsor,
but C.O. Spriggs was in there. We called him
Cosine, Cosine Spriggs. S-P-R-I-G-G-S? Yes. And
his C-O was initial, so C-O-S, and we called him
Cosine. Cosine, right. Cosine Spriggs. And he had
a fellow whose name I can't remember. So did you do
that for all four years? No, we only debated for two
years. Then intercollegiate debating became
sort of passe, and it went to what they call
roundtable, discussion type things. And we did
have a round table club at A&M. And I started it in my
junior year, but it didn't last. We debated Oxford
on the campus over in the physics theater. And the
place was jammed. And it was joke telling. That's
the way the English debated. It was very light.
They'd announce the subject and then very rarely
touch on it. It was a, I spent a lot of time in the
library researching on the subjects. Describe
Cushing Library. Well of course it was a grand old
place and the librarian was Tommy Mayo and he used
to call me cousin. Did class rank matter in the
library? I don't believe so. If you were studying?
Okay, the important questions now. What did it
mean to you that you went to Texas A&M as you look
back on your life?
A little history. I was 12, 13 years old.
I was sitting on a curb in the 400 block of South
Adams. And I was 12, 13 years old, under a street
light. It was summertime. And I looked around. The
fellas that I played ball with, we wound up being
the high school baseball
team. I can remember that the pitcher, his name was
Patterson, his father sold peanut patties, not
peanut brittle. They were as big as, and they were
just peanut patties, sugar with peanuts in them.
Some of the men were unemployed. There just wasn't
much. And I thought to myself, and I give God the
credit for this, Mel, you've got to get out of here.
Now, you're an American. This just evolves over
time. You're entitled to a chance. And that's all
you got coming to you is a chance. And I got on that
train and went to College Station. And I went to see
E.E. McQuillan.
And A&M gave me a chance to get a college education.
And I am in their debt. I will never be able to repay
it. I have tried in every way. I'm a founding member
of the President's Endowed Scholarship Program.
I have provided an athletic scholarship for I just
don't know how long. I am a member of the associates
program. I am a member of the heritage program. And
just A&M, I teach a lot of Bible classes. And I tell
them, I say, the most important things in my life
are easily spelled out for you. First of all, God is
the most important person to me. Then my next most
important is my family. And then not my church, but
A&M. Then the church in there close. And I just, A&M
gave me a chance. I think that the
Those were four preparatory years that provide
you with... I never had any trouble studying in law
school. I never had any trouble with the
discipline in the Army. I liked it. I liked it. I
remember from my junior ROTC days in junior high
school reading a manual on military courtesy and
discipline.
Military discipline is the willful and cheerful
obedience to orders. Now that sort of fits God as
well. If you love me, he says, keep my
commandments. It's the willful and cheerful
obedience to orders. I've never forgotten it. So I
was able to work under lawyers, learn things from
them. I was a distinguished law student, a C-plus
student at A&M. The high man on the bar exam, 194
others took it, beat me three points. And when I
came out and I lost school, I got a chance. I got a
chance. And that was the second chance that I got.
And A&M gave me the first one. And I tell people, I
said I was born American and born white. I started
out ahead of everybody else that was not American
and was not white. And there's just no question
about it. White man has had an advantage over the
black man from the beginning. So I just feel ever so
grateful. I really have a grateful heart. I might
have been or not been a lot of things, but always
been grateful. I have a grateful heart to God. and
to my family and to A&M.